bfsync(1)
=========

NAME
----
bfsync - big file synchronization tool

SYNOPSIS
--------
[verse]
'bfsync' [--version] <command> <args>...

DESCRIPTION
-----------
*`bfsync`* is a file-synchronization tool which allows to keep a collection of
big files synchronized on many machines. There are two types of repositories:
master repositories and checkouts. Master repositories only contain the history
information. Usually they should be stored on a central server which all
computers that should view/edit this data can reach (at least some of the
time). Master repositories are created using linkbfsync:bfsync-init[1]. The
other repository type is a checkout. A checkout can be created using
linkbfsync:bfsync-clone[1]. Besides the history information checkouts contain
the actual file contents, so a checkout can be huge (houndreds of gigabytes)
whereas a master repository is usually small.

To view/edit the data in a checked out repository, the repository must be
mounted using linkbfsync:bfsyncfs[1]. Once mounted, `bfsync` can be called with
the commands given below. For instance `bfsync commit/push/pull` can be used to
modify the local history and resynchronize the history with the master history.
Other commands like `bfsync get/put` can be used to transfer data between
checkouts.

For transfer, `bfsync` needs to be installed on every system that needs to be
accessed. The actual transfer is done using ssh. Transfer has only be tested
with ssh keys; it's highly recommended to use `ssh-agent` to avoid entering
your password over and over again.

It is possible to use `bfsync` for backups, in that case you only use a subset
of what `bfsync` can do to get a versioned FUSE filesystem with deduplication.
See the section BACKUP WALKTHROUGH for a description.

OPTIONS
-------
For sub-commands like `bfsync pull` or `bfsync commit`, the options depend on
the command. In these cases, options are documented on the sub-command manual
page.

--version::
    If this option is used and no command is specified, bfsync prints out the
    current version.

COMMANDS
--------

Main Commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
include::cmds-main.txt[]

Additional Commands
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
include::cmds-add.txt[]
